docs/docs/concepts/static-hosting.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Static Hosting

We have tutorials to help you set up static hosting for various types of build outputs:
* [Build Reports (tests, coverage, etc.)](../tutorials/view-reports)
* [Images](../tutorials/preview-images)
* [Videos](../tutorials/preview-videos)
* [Static Documentation (like Swagger, Javadocs, etc.)](../tutorials/preview-docs)
* [Static Component Previews (like Storybook)](../tutorials/preview-components)

## About the `static_hosting` plugin

Sample task configuration:
```yaml title=".stoat/config.yaml"
---
version: 1
enabled: true
tasks:
  docs:
    metadata:
      name: Documentation
    static_hosting:
      path: build/static-docs
```

The `metadata` key can contain any information that you want to use for [templating](./templating).
However, the `name` key is optionally used by the default template to show the list of statically hosted build artifacts.

The `static_hosting` key contains the required `path`. This path is specified from the root of the Git repository and can
either reference a file or a directory.

After Stoat [aggregates](./aggregation) build data to render the comment, something like this will be used for templating:
```yaml
---
version: 1
enabled: true
tasks:
  docs:
    metadata:
      name: Documentation
    static_hosting:
      path: build/static-docs
      sha: "1848b03dd4b58c8f8485d51a2157af4904e4073f"
      link: "https://some-path-here.stoat.page"
      status: "✅"
```

As you can see, Stoat adds on some information that allows you to access the hosted artifact or view information about the build that produced the artifact.
Note that all information in your metadata field will be passed through.

That means, in your [comment template](./templating) you can use any metadata value or value under `static_hosting` to render the comment.

For example, the following template could be used to add a link to the file in the Stoat comment:
```handlebars
[{{ tasks.docs.metadata.name }}]({{ tasks.docs.static_hosting.link }})
```

Or, if the uploaded file was an [image that could be embedded](../tutorials/preview-images), the following template could be used to render the image inline:
```handlebars
![{{ tasks.taskid.metadata.name }}]({{ tasks.taskid.static_hosting.link }})
```

## Default template

If you'd like to just get a table of all build outputs configured with the `static_hosting` plugin, we recommend using:
```handlebars
{{{ views.plugins.static_hosting.github.table }}}
```

Under the hood, this uses the following template:
```handlebars
## Static Hosting

| Name | Link | Commit | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--: | :-----: |
{{#each tasks}}
{{#if this.static_hosting.status ~}}
| **{{#if this.metadata.name}}{{{ this.metadata.name }}}{{else}}{{ @key }}{{/if}}** | [Visit]({{ this.static_hosting.link }}) | {{ this.static_hosting.sha }} | {{{ this.static_hosting.status }}} |
{{/if ~}}
{{/each}}
```

## Local previews

Our CLI can run static hosting using your local build results.
View our [local previews guide](./local-previews) for more information.

Commit message:

change config file format to use plugins.static_hosting.task_id instead of tasks.task_id.static_hosting (#86)
I'm not planning on separating out the partial config merge key into
something separate than the current aggregation method which depends on
task id, so this implicitly adds a "stoat_job_runtime" dependency.

Job stats tracking is enabled by default at the action level unless
`plugins.job_runtime.tracking = false`. Job stats view rendering
requires enabling by setting `plugins.job_runtime.enabled = true`. The
CLI now adds this by default.

- [x] server pr
- [x] bump/publish CLI version

docs/docs/concepts/static-hosting.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Static Hosting

We have tutorials to help you set up static hosting for various types of build outputs:
* [Build Reports (tests, coverage, etc.)](../tutorials/view-reports)
* [Images](../tutorials/preview-images)
* [Videos](../tutorials/preview-videos)
* [Static Documentation (like Swagger, Javadocs, etc.)](../tutorials/preview-docs)
* [Static Component Previews (like Storybook)](../tutorials/preview-components)

## About the `static_hosting` plugin

Sample task configuration:
```yaml title=".stoat/config.yaml"
---
version: 1
enabled: true
plugins:
  static_hosting:
    docs:
      metadata:
        name: Documentation
      path: build/static-docs
```

Here, `docs` is the user-chosen task id. This should be unique across all of the configured plugins.

The `metadata` key can contain any information that you want to use for [templating](./templating).
However, the `name` key is optionally used by the default template to show the list of statically hosted build artifacts.

The `docs` key contains the required `path`. This path is specified from the root of the Git repository and can
either reference a file or a directory.

After Stoat [aggregates](./aggregation) build data to render the comment, something like this will be used for templating:
```yaml
---
version: 1
enabled: true
plugins:
  static_hosting:
    docs:
      metadata:
        name: Documentation
      path: build/static-docs
      sha: "1848b03dd4b58c8f8485d51a2157af4904e4073f"
      link: "https://some-path-here.stoat.page"
      status: "✅"
```

As you can see, Stoat adds on some information that allows you to access the hosted artifact or view information about the build that produced the artifact.
Note that all information in your metadata field will be passed through.

That means, in your [comment template](./templating) you can use any metadata value or value under the task id `docs` to render the comment.

For example, the following template could be used to add a link to the file in the Stoat comment:
```handlebars
[{{ plugins.static_hosting.docs.metadata.name }}]({{ plugins.static_hosting.docs.link }})
```

Or, if the uploaded file was an [image that could be embedded](../tutorials/preview-images), the following template could be used to render the image inline:
```handlebars
![{{ plugins.static_hosting.taskid.metadata.name }}]({{ plugins.static_hosting.taskid.link }})
```

## Default template

If you'd like to just get a table of all build outputs configured with the `static_hosting` plugin, we recommend using:
```handlebars
{{{ views.plugins.static_hosting.github.table }}}
```

Under the hood, this uses the following template:
```handlebars
## Static Hosting

| Name | Link | Commit | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--: | :-----: |
{{#each plugins.static_hosting}}
{{#if this.status ~}}
| **{{#if this.metadata.name}}{{{ this.metadata.name }}}{{else}}{{ @key }}{{/if}}** | [Visit]({{ this.link }}) | {{ this.sha }} | {{{ this.status }}} |
{{/if ~}}
{{/each}}
```

## Local previews

Our CLI can run static hosting using your local build results.
View our [local previews guide](./local-previews) for more information.
